a scholars scholar and a warrior's
warrior today on uncommon knowledge
General James Madison common knowledge
now welcome to uncommon knowledge I'm
Peter Robinson a native of Washington
State James Madison listed in the United
States Marine Corps in 1969 the year
after he graduated from high school and
served an ROTC while he attended Central
Washington State University by the time
general mattis retired from the Marine
Corps as a full general in 2013 he had
commanded men in combat in Iraq during
the Persian Gulf War in Afghanistan and
in Iraq once again during the Iraq war
he had also served as the NATO supreme
Allied commander for transformation as
commander of the United States Joint
Forces Command and as commander of the
United States Central Command also known
as CENTCOM where general mattis was
responsible for the Middle East North
Africa and Central Asia
general mattis is now a fellow at the
Hoover Institution the think-tank at
Stanford Jim mattis welcome thank you I
should state that you insist that I call
you Jim and not general I'll shine your
shoes anytime you want and call you
general but you insist on Jim is it true
that you always kept with you a copy of
the meditations of Marcus Aurelius
it is Peter that one and quite a few
other books actually so a Roman Emperor
who died 18 centuries ago remained
relevant to you as a commander in the
United States Marine Corps in what way
it was good for me to be reminded that I
faced nothing new Under the Sun
technology throws a few odd wrinkles in
but the bottom line is the fundamental
impulses the fundamental challenges and
the solutions are pretty timeless in my
line of work
let me quote to you this is an email I
found that you on a military website
from that you wrote as you were
preparing to deploy to Iraq back in the
early 2000s quote for all the
intellectuals running around today
saying that the nature of war has
fundamentally changed I must
respectfully say not really Alexander
the Great would not be in the least
perplexed by the enemy we face right now
what would Alexander the Great have seen
in radical Islam that he would have
recognized when he was fighting in the
same region back several thousand years
ago he confronted basically in it what
looked like an implacable foe someone
with a very different worldview
he was unconcerned in some ways about
his own tactics he had confidence that
he knew how his forces could act and
their behavior on the battlefield but he
was concerned with was how to understand
this enemy and he would have found an
enemy that even though it was not Islam
you know it oriented in any way it was
still a culture that looked at the world
differently than his so he sought to
understand it and as he understood it he
understood how he would go after it so
before committing to combat understand
the enemy absolutely general you Jim you
testified we're taping this at the tail
end of January
earlier this very week you testified
before the Senate Armed Services
Committee under the new chairman fellow
military man John McCain and instead of
sitting there and telling the Senators
what you thought they ought to do you
sat there and told them the questions
that you thought they ought to ask and
I'd like to take a few of the questions
you proposed to John McCain and his
colleagues and ask them of Jim mattis
quote here's the first when the decision
is made to employ our forces in combat
the committee should ask are the
political objectives clearly defined and
Shiva Bowl explained that since World
War two we've entered probably five
major conflicts four of those did not
turn out well we went into them
enthusiastically into Korea into Vietnam
Desert Storm as an outlier and then we
did Afghanistan and Iraq Desert Storm is
the one that went well Desert Storm went
well because it had very clearly defined
political and state and if you look at
the president emeritus of Dartmouth
University Jim Wright he wrote an
article in the Atlantic in July of 2013
and he said what did we learn from the
Korean War and basically what I drew
from that was if you have murky or
changing political end States then you
don't know how to end that war and if
you don't know how to end the war the
war will go on and on the enemy will
mutate and the American people will
understandably lose understand
appreciation for what it is they're
fighting for because it's not well
articulated so if you don't get the
political end state right up front
you're going to be engaged in a war you
don't know how to end in favorable terms
Jim does that mean the President George
HW Bush in the first Gulf War was
correct he came in for criticism four
years afterwards and to some extent even
today for not continuing all the way to
Baghdad and toppling Saddam Hussein was
he correct to stop where he stopped he
had said that the aim of the of the
campaign was to drive Iraq out of Kuwait
and once he had done that he stopped was
that the right thing to do absolutely it
was he clarified the political objective
he drew together a worldwide coalition
to support it we went in and we did it
and then he did not allow mission creep
he did not do what would have broken
actually the political coalition which
the military was simply the most forward
part of so yes he was absolutely on
target and that's why we really end that
war
in a very few number of days at once the
fighting started so second Iraq war we
invade in 2003 and for three weeks
everything goes beautifully we advance
north opposition melting away and at the
end of three weeks Saddam Hussein and
his regime were gone and then for
roughly four years until President
George W Bush the younger President Bush
instituted the surge we changed tactics
we added troops but there's a period
between those first four weeks and the
surge of some four years when things
just go sideways how does a military man
understand how do you think about what
went wrong right first the attack did go
very well for the first three weeks and
a conventional terms although I assure
you it wasn't that swimmingly smooth for
the lads on the front line just
something to remember but what happens
at that point is it's revealed that we
don't have a clearly stated political
end state and now we start wondering
we're in search of a political end state
so strategies which are where you
connect those means to achieve in the
political end State now have got to
start accommodating uncertainty
uncertainty is sufficient on a
battlefield
to cause any strategy headaches but it's
absolutely impossible if you haven't
figured out on your own part what you
want to intent what you intend to do so
if you haven't got that part figured out
you have no constant objective that
you're aiming towards and now you start
wandering on the battlefield you start
wandering intellectually and what is
what is in the American system good
military men take it as a kind of sacred
matter that they defer ultimately to the
civilian authority but you've just said
in four engagements out of five major
engagements since the Second World War I
think one of these are my words you
would never put it this way but one of
the things you're saying is the
civilians screwed up they did not give
the profession
clearly defined objectives when the
professionals find the civilians failing
to provide clear objectives what is the
professionals duty well the duty for
generals for Admirals is to press to try
and get clearly stated political
objectives in our in our form of
government the military is subordinate
to the civilian leadership the commander
in chief is elected by the American
people
I was never elected by the American
people I was promoted with the consent
of the US Senate that's not the same as
being elected so I believe the role for
the senior military officers is to be
heard they should insist on being heard
they must never insist on being obeyed
in our form of government but as they
insist on being heard they have to try
to do this carry out this national
dialogue without creating adversarial
relationships with the political
leadership try to avoid that and what
you want to do is hard well it is hard
but what I learned over many years is
something that secretary Bob gates made
very clear and some of his writing and
that is at the highest levels it all
depends on personal relationships and so
you've got to try to maintain your best
military advice without without creating
any kind of animosity at that level it
is hard you just have to keep working at
it and try to walk a mile in their shoes
as you try to close the gap between the
appreciation the military has for the
situation and the as it's seen by the
political leadership and this is this is
not unique to our times today we had the
same challenges between FDR and general
Marshall in World War two and certainly
Abe Lincoln had challenges with his
generals so this is just part of
maintaining a government of the people
by the people and for the people that
needs military defenders but at the same
time it does not exist for a military
purpose Afghanistan two quotations on
Afghanistan
here's one President Barack Obama on
December 28th of last year for more than
13 years our nation has been at war in
Afghanistan now our combat mission is
ending and the longest war in American
history is coming to a responsible
conclusion close quote quotation - this
is Jim mattis testifying to the Senate
Armed Services Committee a few days ago
gains achieved at great cost against our
enemy in Afghanistan our reversible we
may not want this fight but the
barbarity of an enemy that kills women
and children and has refused to break
with al Qaeda needs to be fought closed
quote in your view we're not done in
Afghanistan is that right Peter in my
line of work the enemy gets a vote is
the way we put it you may want to war
over you may declare it over the enemy
may not agree and you have to deal with
that that reality we have irreconcilable
differences with the Taliban Secretary
Clinton when she was Secretary of State
gave three conditions for the Taliban to
be brought back inside the body politic
of Afghanistan one break with al Qaeda
to quit killing people could stop using
violence and three obey the Afghan
Constitution they have refused that very
low bar that would have allowed them to
step over and come over to bringing
their political ideas forward to see if
the Afghan people would buy into them
the reason they don't do it the reason
they use bombs instead of going to the
ballot box because they know the Afghan
people will not buy into it so they will
continue to support al Qaeda they will
continue to do this kind of terrorism
that they conduct over there every day
and as they do that for us to declare
arbitrarily that the war is over may not
match the reality on the ground all
right you've raised in a kind of a bleak
way but you've raised a point when
you're in uniform you insist on being
heard not you personally but a leader of
military MIT professionals and insists
on being heard but never insists on
being obeyed now that you're out of
uniform
you're you spoke very eloquently and
very carefully but you didn't say a word
against President Obama even though I
gave you a big fat opportunity to do so
by quoting him ah you testified to the
Senate Armed Services Committee and
again you were very careful not to
attack the president directly you view
your duty right now as describing this
what do you how do you see your duty you
know a lot you love your country you
understand the military and you draw
different conclusions from the
administration but you're but you're
being careful about what you say well
I'm not too careful I've gotten in some
trouble over the years so I'm not too
careful about it but I I'm basically
saying the same thing that I said in
private meetings and even in public
meetings back when I was on active duty
the bottom line I think here is that I
owe my best military advice and at times
it's uncomfortable for a democracy that
believes in freedom and it believes in
peace and prosperity the idea that this
level of evil can exist is incompatible
with our with our view of what we would
like to see is we turn over this world
to our children but I'm also convinced
having dealt with this enemy since 1979
which is the first time I sailed into
those waters on u.s. Navy ships that
we're up against an enemy that means
what they say and we should not
patronize them when they say girls don't
go to school you're not going to talk
them out of it I simply have in a picnic
in the backyard and resolving your
differences their views of the role of
women their views of modernity their
views of tolerance for people who think
differently are fundamentally different
than ours and Oliver Wendell Holmes jr.
made very clear that between two
irreconcilable worldviews it's probably
going to turn to a fight and that's what
we're in right now whether we want it to
be over or not and in regards to the
president loyalty I was 40 odd years a
naval officer and loyalty I learned only
counts when there's a hundred reasons
not to be and I would just tell you that
the president
a tough enough year and he doesn't need
generals coming out now and
characterizing him in negative terms we
we owe the country we owe the president
our best advice but I I don't choose to
take part in in going beyond that and
characterizing people's motives or their
performances unsatisfactory we're all
trying to make sense of this world
got it another of your questions to the
Senate which I'm now going to put to you
a quote I'm quoting you Jim as President
Eisenhower noted the foundation of our
military strength is economic strength
no nation in history has maintained its
military power if it failed to keep its
fiscal house in order how do you this is
you talking to the Senators how do you
halt the damage caused by sequestration
close quote sequestration this is the
budget sequester 2013 when Republicans
and Democrats in Congress could not
agree on what needed to be cut so they
set up a few automatically idea was that
the automatic cuts were so draconian
they would force them to get together
they never did get together and the
sequester sequestration has taken place
cut the defense budget by about six
percent in 2013
cut it again last year and President
Obama's now projected that he's going to
propose spending on the Defense
Department something like 6% over
sequester okay so we end up with a
Pentagon budget we'll note who knows
where it's going to come out but it's
going to be about five hundred billion
dollars to five thirty if you if the
president gets exactly what he seems to
be proposing is that enough well I don't
know if it's enough but I know one thing
for certain if you want to cut the
defense budget you should do it wisely
and reducing your strategic end your
political aims make certain that you
don't have a policy that requires a
military that's larger than what you're
willing to fund the way we're doing it
right now is we're doing it with
arithmetic now let's put it in terms of
a family budget and if if if a cut comes
to your income and you say you have to
take a 10% cut in in your in your
family's budget you don't cut vacations
ten percent food ten
percent life insurance 10% rent 10% you
may cut out all your vacations or your
restaurant meals and you wisely take
that into account what we're doing right
now is we're doing these salami cuts of
everything and the result is you have a
mindless application of our money in
many cases going to priorities that no
one agrees should be funded so this is
just silly the engine for our national
security has always been our economy and
whether you look back at the Roman
Empire or you look at the Spanish Empire
or the British Empire no country the
Soviet Union no country has maintained
its military strength if it did not
maintain its fiscal house in good order
and right now we are spending so
irresponsibly we're going to turn over
to the younger generation and injurious
taxation and most of the money that we
will be spending which is by the way
more within a couple of years servicing
our debt right than we spend on the
Department of Defense will be going to
Riyadh Moscow Beijing and Tokyo not all
those countries are friends and we are
put we are sending our like borrowing
money from them and with borrowing they
they are holding our paper right and
we're going to be sending them money and
the young people are growing up today
when you and I grew up if we had a good
idea we could always find someone to
fund us and come in we're sitting here
in Silicon Valley as we speak right now
in the future that money may not be
available because of the
irresponsibility of the current
government basically and us we've got to
look at ourselves on this that we're
allowing this irresponsible spending
that's going to burden the younger
generation Jim one more question on
spending I fumbled away 500 billion or
534 bil 6% the numbers are mind-boggling
yeah how do you as a professional say to
a layman an ordinary Mara this the
notion would be those numbers are so
huge it's hard to understand what they
mean and anybody who reads a memoir or
two about the Pentagon understands that
it's a gigantic operation in many ways
its bureaucrat
there are all kinds of rival trees
inter-service rivalries in trust service
rivalries taking place
how can an American an ordinary American
who can't begin to go through all the
detail how can you have any confidence
that the Pentagon budget how do you know
the Pentagon budget is right Dwight
Eisenhower said our military strength
rests on our economic strength but in
his farewell address he also warned
about the military-industrial complex
those contractors we're going to lobby
congressmen for contract how do you know
that it's being done right well it's
hard it's hard and we can always find in
a budget this large we can find things
that are waste or we can find things
that in all likelihood we don't need in
a military budget the challenge is how
do you set up the processes to audit it
to govern it to allocate those those
resources in a responsible manner and
what I've found over many years in many
different organizations if you take good
people and good ideas and you match them
with bad processes the bad processes
will win nine out of ten times right now
the processes have become so convoluted
the laws are so complex governing
acquisition the budgets themselves are
so detailed in some areas directing
things that even the military we don't
ask for frankly that you can't really
get the good ideas forward and have them
governing all aspects of the budget this
is normal this is not something we're
all sudden one day we're going to find
the Holy Grail and say presto we know
how to how to solve this but we've got
to work this in a manner that creates
processes that return integrity to the
managerial integrity to the system we
know what to do with corruption we put
people in jail for that sort of thing
this is not about corruption this is
about using the resources wisely the
American people have given us and it
you're right it's become so big it's
hard really to to calculate that another
of your questions for the Senate Armed
Services Committee that I'm
on you is the US military being
developed to fight across the full
spectrum of combat our forces must be
capable of missions from nuclear
deterrence to counterinsurgency and
everything in between now including the
pervasive cyber domain let me just take
you around the world do you believe we
now have the proper spectrum of forces
in place to deal with a rising China
well in light of China's bullying in the
South China Sea I don't think we're
building enough ships I think we are
going to be forced as we pull more of
our forces home from overseas from the
cold war days and that was appropriate
we bring them home but we're going to be
forced into a more naval strategy as far
as the military strategy for America as
a result we're going to have to look at
what we're doing and we may have to give
the Navy a bigger slice of the budget in
order to carry out the kind of
operations that reassure our friends and
temper our adversaries designs I mean
it's all well and good we're trying to
get along with China and I completely
endorsed that I don't think China sees
any value to going to war with the
United States but at the same time there
are a lot of nations out in that region
that would like to see more US Navy's
making port calls in their harbors from
Vietnam to the Philippines from Malaysia
Taiwan and Japan and if you don't have
enough ships then you're going to have a
hard time doing that and sometimes in
this world the best ambassador you can
have as a man of war so we're going to
have to look at this to make certain
we're making a military fit for its time
is the bottom line Iran yes do we have
the spectrum in place to deal with Iran
yes obviously it would take more forces
if we had to go with a military option
for Iran which the president has not
taken off the table but yes we we can
handle Iran your comp you're comfortable
with that one I have no doubt all right
you know thank you because I will sleep
better tonight at least with regard to
Iran well remember war now peter is
fundamentally an unpredictable
phenomenon so I'm not saying that it
would be carefree I'm not saying we can
be
careless and it would be bloody awful it
would be a catastrophe if we have to
have another war in the Middle East like
that but could we handle it from a
military point of view absolutely ISIL
the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
2014 June 2014
ISIL declares itself a worldwide
Caliphate it has attracted thousands of
combatants from the United States it now
controls about half of Syria and about a
third of Iraq that maybe a little less
today because the Kurds announced that
they were there moving in but it they've
got a lot of territory and they're
carrying out you spoke earlier about the
barbarity of the Taliban the ISIL are
carrying out they've carried out
thousands of executions of religious and
political opponent and these are in
these include beheadings and
crucifixions do we have the proper
spectrum of forces in place to deal with
ISIL well we have the forces available
the military forces available they're
not in place but that reflects the
political decision the question is do we
have the political will to deal with
ISIL in an intelligent and effective
manner they how to put this they they're
an organization that are a little bit
like Lebanese Hezbollah in terms of
trying to create social services they're
a lot like al-qaeda operationally or
philosophically but operationally
they're like al-qaeda on steroids and
when you put that together they're
they're a uniquely capable organization
but the fact is they couldn't last two
minutes in a fight with with our troops
and so it comes down to having a good
strategy it comes down to a political
situation in Baghdad that draws Sunnis
and Kurds and Shiah together and I think
that the new Prime Minister has has done
some things in the right direction on
that but it also comes down to making
certain that we know what it is not only
what we fight for in this world but what
we will not tolerate and the kind of
fascinations the mass killings the the
mass rapes that are going on there this
is a group that deserves no no support
from anyone and we should try to shut
down its recruiting shut down its
finances and then work to fight battles
of annihilation not attrition but
annihilation against them so the first
time they meet the forces that we put
against them there should be basically
no survivors they should learn that we
can be even tougher than them except for
the ones who surrender obviously we
don't kill prisoners but if they want to
fight they should pay a heck of a price
for what they've done
Denison people out there okay Jim now
here's another I'm going to put myself
in your hands as a layman and just ask
you to explain to me how to think of the
kind of conflict you just described and
here's what I'm here's what I mean this
goes back to your first question clear
definition objectives end state you
mentioned five engagements since the
Second World War let me mention well so
Second World War we knew whom we had to
beat Imperial Japan needed to surrender
and Nazi Germany needed to surrender and
runstats signed a document of surrender
and the Japanese sent representatives to
the USS Missouri and they signed in
front of a car it ended we knew who they
where we knew where they were and we
knew how to take them on Cold War the
Soviet Union on December 25th 1991
ceases to exist ISIL has territory
that's one I could sort of okay that to
that extent I understand we they can't
end up controlling that territory but if
you think in terms of the conflict with
radical Islam
you've got ISIL the Taliban al-qaeda
seems to have franchise operations
almost like McDonald's there in Yemen
and elsewhere we've got places I didn't
even I never heard of Boko Haram in
Nigeria until a couple of months ago
turns out they've been there for quite a
while
yesterday's newspaper there was an
attack in the Sinai
in which some 20 Egyptians work so
activity is taking place against
president Sisi if I'm pronouncing it
correctly in Egypt and this is 13 years
after 9/11 so layman Robinson says this
this this is like this is metastasis or
at low cancer is it let's not let's not
be melodramatic just as it it's like the
the kids too why you push it down here
and it pops up there how do we how do we
how do we fight a phenomenon radical
Islam as opposed to a state well the
problem with Islam goes back to the days
of the Prophet and when he dies and it
splits into two halves and at that point
they they've got an internal war that's
kept kept waxing and waning over the
years between the Sunni and the Shia and
the Sunni and the Shia and then the
first time that I think I could find
jihad in our presidential papers is with
Thomas Jefferson and for the Marine
Corps we got to the shores of Tripoli in
our song from that campaign so no this
is not this is not new and it has gone
on for a long time obviously it's in a
waxing phase it's getting stronger I
think the first question you have to ask
is as you try to make sense out of all
this is political Islam in our best
interest and let me define political
Islam from the Sunni side it would be
the Muslim brothers in Cairo for a year
after the the Arab Spring put them in
power or in Tehran not with the Shia
side is is political Islam is practiced
in Tehran in our best interest no easy
answer either one I defer to the
American people if that is what you
think then what is our effort how should
our effort look to support the
countervailing forces you brought up
general al-sisi's now president el-sissi
yes he went out to al-azhar university
the oldest most famous university and
all of the Arab lands on January 1st I
think it was and he said that there has
got to be a change in thinking and the
clerics need to
that that there's something wrong with
Islam when the whole world is starting
to see it as a murderous religion he
says I'm not talking about changing the
religion I'm talking about changing the
thinking if you go to Mohammed bin Zayed
the crown prince in United Arab Emirates
he believes that you've got to have a
modern state and that political Islam
has no role in governance obviously each
person's morality and their their
relationship with their God guides them
but it's not the government it doesn't
guide the govern the government is
guided by men no theocracy no Sharia law
you go to the king of Jordan who
believes in moderate Islam you go to any
number of people out there who will
fight alongside us I've fought many
times in Middle East I never fought in
an all-american formation I always had
Arabs beside me always had Muslims
beside me and I bring this up because
when we ask those fundamental questions
and we recognize the reality of today's
challenges it will lead us to certain
behavior like taking our own side in the
fight and supporting the people I just
mentioned rather than confusing them and
so we're going to have to look at this
because back in the 1980s 1983 the
Lebanese Hezbollah the Iranian inspired
militias declared war basically on the
United States they blew up our embassy
in Beirut they attacked the French
paratrooper barracks attacked the US
Marine barracks and they've killed
Americans many times since they tried to
kill ambassador Otto the Saudi
ambassador to Washington DC two miles
from the White House here two years ago
and that was the decision taken at the
highest levels in Tehran and we have
done nothing about it that side of the
the insurgency the terrorism the violent
jihadist extremist terrorists has not
been touched by the Americans at the
same time al Qaeda declares war on us in
the 1990s they try to bring the trade
towers down they succeed the second time
they attacked the USS Cole they blow up
two of our embassies in East Africa and
though that organization we have
shredded their senior leadership but
you're right it is franchised its
al-shabaab in Somalia its AQAP al Qaeda
Arabian Peninsula's in Yemen of course
we've got Isis there's Boko Haram and I
can go on you so bottom line is you have
to recognize the historic roots and
you've got to go after it by supporting
the countervailing forces and creating
the worldwide Alliance like we did in
World War two
based on the clarity of defining the
problem remember I in Stein said if
given one hour to save the world I'd
spend 55 minutes composing my thoughts
on what the problem is and I'd save the
world in five minutes we're going to
have to put in the intellectual thinking
to figure out what it is that we defend
and more importantly what we will not
tolerate in the world Jim that amounts
to a call for new seriousness on the
part of the civilian leaders is that not
correct and military guided by our
intelligence services that actually have
done a very good job outlining what this
enemy looks like all right a couple of
final questions the movie American
sniper has reopened a debate about the
cost of war especially of course on the
on those who volunteer for the forces
and do the actual fighting here's a
recent quotation from you you spoke at a
veteran's group not too long ago quote
although I this is before the movie
opened still you're addressing the
issues that the movie is raised quote I
would just say there is one
misperception of our veterans and that
is they're somehow damaged goods I don't
buy it there is also something called
post trauma traumatic growth explain
what you mean anyone who goes to war
well let me let me change that going to
war is one thing you can deploy to a
dangerous wartime situation without
being in combat an awful lot of people
are in support jobs but for those who
close in on the enemy who seek out close
with to kill the enemy it is a very
atavistic primitive environment and
there is post-traumatic stress for
anyone who's been through it
there is stress no doubt about you grant
that
absolutely you insist on it well it's
not an insignificant moment Peter the
first time you draw down and you shoot
your fellow man that's all there is to
it or you see your buddy hit next eeeh
so the bottom line there's going to be
stress but it does not have to be
post-traumatic disorder
or syndrome or you don't have to come at
it from a position of illness you can
come at it from a position of wellness
from a position of growth as a human
being I've seen people come out of this
sort of thing better better men better
husband's better fathers more in touch
with their God or whatever their source
of spiritual strength is kinder more
compassionate now there was a Civil War
general named Chamberlain who rose to be
the president of Bowden College in Maine
and he said combat makes good men better
and bad men worse so there is the
reality that not not everyone reacts the
same way but I don't buy that somehow if
you came home from Iwo Jima or
Gettysburg or Iraq or Afghanistan that
somehow you're you're limited in what
you can do the greatest generation came
home from World War two the worst war in
world history and they created good
communities they rose to be college
presidents start industries that created
wealth for the for the working man I
just don't buy that somehow that we are
handicapped because we've been in those
circumstances I recognize the grim
realities I don't recognize the limited
potential of a human being when they
come out of that gym last question
although you retired with four stars you
joined the Marine Corps as a kid you
were 19 years old 18 actually 18 sorry
all right and so here's the question
what would you say to an 18 year old
today when you joined up the United
States was self-confident enough to be
engaged in and ultimately to win a 45
year-old 45 year conflict
the Cold War there are questions about
how self-confident the country is today
we face this complicated new enemy this
new set of circumstances and conditions
and at the same time the private economy
has produced opportunities for eighteen
and nineteen year old kids that they
didn't face when you were a kid up in
washing in the farm country up in
Washington State what would you say what
would you say to a kid in your
circumstances up in Washington State or
maybe somebody here at Stanford
University who is considering the ROTC
program about why a career in the armed
forces of the United States would still
be a worthwhile to spend 20 or more
years of your life well I think what you
want want to do is explain that there
comes a point in your life when you want
to know that you serve for a purpose in
this world and there's a gravestone up
in Cypress Hills Cemetery in New York
with a guy that we all loved when we
were kids growing up he was a sparkling
baseball player we all wanted to be
Jackie Robinson and if you go to that
grave today it says a life is not
important except in the impact it has on
other lives that would and he wrote his
own epitaph by the way I think that when
you look at this experiment we call
America we should not look at the people
who founded it as if they had an easy
time of it and they are now just faces
on dollar bills we should not look at
this as something that is just
automatically our inheritance we're
going to have to work for it and at
times we're going to have to fight for
it because we might have been born here
most of us by complete accident good
fortune we lived here by choice but we
have an obligation to turn this free
country over to young men and women with
the same freedoms that we got when we
grew up in it and if you want to be part
of something that keeps you from sitting
in a psychiatrist chair when you're 45
wonder what you do with your life you
can't go wrong than going up then join
up the army the Navy Air Force Coast
Guard Marine Corps and spent in four
years and if you like it you sticker
on for longer frankly I dislike many of
the jobs I had as a Marine I grew to
hate minefields when I was a 21 year old
infantry lieutenant but I also grew to
love being around guys who'd crawl
willingly into minefields alongside you
and so I I just recommend it if you want
to get far from the well-lit avenues of
life and go test yourself in the
toughest circumstance alongside the best
people in a world you'll never regret
serving the US military
General James Madison United States
Marine Corps thank you for the Hoover
Institution and the Wall Street Journal
I'm Peter Robinson